= Capistrano rsync_with_remote_cache Deployment Strategy

== Description

This gem provides a deployment strategy for Capistrano which combines the
<tt>rsync</tt> command with a remote cache, allowing fast deployments from SCM
repositories behind firewalls.

== Requirements

This gem supports Subversion, Git, Mercurial and Bazaar. Only Subversion and
Git have been extensively tested. This gem is unlikely to be supported for
other SCM systems.

This gem requires the <tt>rsync</tt> command-line utilities on the local and
remote hosts. It also requires either <tt>svn</tt>, <tt>git</tt>, <tt>hg</tt>
or <tt>bzr</tt> on the local host, but not the remote host.

This gem is tested on Mac OS X and Linux. Windows is neither tested nor supported.

== Installation

    gem install capistrano_rsync_with_remote_cache

== Usage

To use this deployment strategy, add this line to your <tt>deploy.rb</tt> file:

    set :deploy_via, :rsync_with_remote_cache

== Under the Hood

This strategy maintains two cache directories:

* The local cache directory is a checkout from the SCM repository. The local
  cache directory is specified with the <tt>:local_cache</tt> variable in the
  configuration. If not specified, it will default to <tt>.rsync_cache</tt>
  in the same directory as the Capfile.

* The remote cache directory is an <tt>rsync</tt> copy of the local cache directory.
  The remote cache directory is specified with the <tt>:repository_cache</tt> variable
  in the configuration (this name comes from the <tt>:remote_cache</tt> strategy that
  ships with Capistrano, and has been maintained for compatibility.) If not
  specified, it will default to <tt>shared/cached-copy</tt> (again, for compatibility
  with remote_cache.)

Deployment happens in three major steps. First, the local cache directory is
processed. There are three possibilities:

* If the local cache does not exist, it is created with a checkout of the
  revision to be deployed.
* If the local cache exists and matches the <tt>:repository</tt> variable, it is
  updated to the revision to be deployed.
* If the local cache exists and does not match the <p>:repository</p> variable,
  the local cache is purged and recreated with a checkout of the revision
  to be deployed.
* If the local cache exists but is not a directory, an exception is raised

Second, <tt>rsync</tt> runs on the local side to sync the remote cache to the local
cache. When the <tt>rsync</tt> is complete, the remote cache should be an exact
replica of the local cache.

Finally, a copy of the remote cache is made in the appropriate release
directory. The end result is the same as if the code had been checked out
directly on the remote server, as in the default strategy.

== Contributors

Thanks to the people who submitted patches:

* {S. Brent Faulkner}[http://github.com/sbfaulkner]

== License

Copyright (c) 2007 - 2010 Patrick Reagan (patrick.reagan@viget.com) & Mark Cornick

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
